Add TiDB Cloud Terraform Doc (#10563)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/terraform/restore-resource.md

---
title: Restore Resource

> summary: Learn how to use restore resource

Author: 同上

        config           = {
            components    = {
                tidb    = {
                    node_quantity = 2
                    node_size     = "8C16G"
                }
                tiflash = {
                    node_quantity    = 2
                    node_size        = "8C64G"
                    storage_size_gib = 500
                }
                tikv    = {
                    node_quantity    = 6
                    node_size        = "8C32G"
                    storage_size_gib = 500
                }
            }
            port          = 4000
            root_password = "Your_root_password1."
        }
        create_timestamp = "2022-08-26T08:16:33Z"
        id               = "780114"
        name             = "restoreCluster"
        project_id       = "1372813089189561287"
        status           = "PENDING"
    }
    ```

You can see the restore task's status is `PENDING` and the cluster's status is `INITIALIZING`.

After the cluster is `AVAILABLE`, the restore task will be `RUNNING` and turn to `SUCCESS` at last.

It is everything ok? No, the bad news is the restored cluster is not managed by terraform.

> Don't worry, we can solve it in the next section.

Reviewer: 请用规范的技术文档语言，避免反问句，避免自问自答和其他修辞。简单陈述句即可。

---
title: Restore Resource
summary: Learn how to use restore resource
---

# Restore Resource

You can learn how to create a restore task with restore resource in this document.

You can also learn how to import a TiDB Cloud cluster created a restore task.

## Prerequisites

- Before you begin, you need to [Get TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider](/tidb-cloud/terraform/tidbcloud-provider.md) first.
- The backup and restore feature is unavailable for Developer Tier clusters. To use restore resources, make sure that you have created a Dedicated Tier cluster.

## Create a restore task with restore resource

After creating a backup of a cluster, you can restore the cluster by creating a restore task with restore resources.

> 1. You can configure a restore resource as follows. Note that you can only restore data from a smaller node size to a larger node size:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. You can configure a restore resource as follows. Note that you can only restore data from a smaller node size to the same or a larger node size:
```

---
title: Restore Resource
summary: Learn how to use restore resource
---

# Restore Resource

> **Note:**
>
> Please [Get TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider](/tidb-cloud/terraform/tidbcloud-provider.md) first.
> 
> Backup and restore feature is unavailable for Developer Tier clusters. To use restore resources, make sure that you have created a Dedicated Tier cluster.

You can learn how to create a restore task with restore resource in this document.

You can also learn how to import the TiDB Cloud cluster created by restore task.

## Create a restore task with restore resource

After creating a backup of a cluster, you can restore the cluster by creating a restore task with restore resources.

> 1. You can configure a restore resource as follows. Note that you can only restore data from a smaller node size to a larger node size:

Reviewer 2: 问题：如果要 restore 到的 node 的 size 和 restore 之前的一样，也可以 restore 吗？

Author: 可以

        cluster          = {
            id     = "1379661944630264072"
            name   = "restoreCluster"
            status = "INITIALIZING"
        }
        cluster_id       = "1379661944630234067"
        config           = {
            components    = {
                tidb    = {
                    node_quantity = 2
                    node_size     = "8C16G"
                }
                tiflash = {
                    node_quantity    = 2
                    node_size        = "8C64G"
                    storage_size_gib = 500
                }
                tikv    = {
                    node_quantity    = 6
                    node_size        = "8C32G"
                    storage_size_gib = 500
                }
            }
            port          = 4000
            root_password = "Your_root_password1."
        }
        create_timestamp = "2022-08-26T08:16:33Z"
        id               = "780114"
        name             = "restoreCluster"
        project_id       = "1372813089189561287"
        status           = "PENDING"
    }
    ```

You can see the restore task's status is `PENDING` and the cluster's status is `INITIALIZING`.

> After the cluster is `AVAILABLE`, the restore task will be `RUNNING` and turn to `SUCCESS` at last.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the cluster status changes to `AVAILABLE`, the restore task will be `RUNNING` and turn to `SUCCESS` at last. Copy the project ID and cluster ID for later use. 
```

> The bad news is the restored cluster is not managed by terraform. We can solve it by importing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that the restored cluster is not managed by Terraform, so you need to restore the cluster by importing it.
```

Reviewer 2: 技术文档通常保持客观中立，不带情绪

Author: You can manage the restored cluster by importing it. 我这样修改了

> ## Import the restore cluster

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Import a restore cluster
```

You can manage a cluster with Terraform by importing the cluster even if it is not created by Terraform.

The following steps show you how to import the cluster created by the restore task in the last section.

> 1. Add a cluster resource like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Add a cluster resource as follows:
```

    ```
    resource "tidbcloud_cluster" "restore_cluster1" {}
    ```

> 2. Import the cluster by `terraform import tidbcloud_cluster.restore_cluster1 projectId,clusterId`, you can get the projectId and clusterId by restore resource:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Import the cluster by `terraform import tidbcloud_cluster.restore_cluster1 projectId,clusterId` (you can get the projectId and clusterId by restore resource):
```

    ```
    $ terraform import tidbcloud_cluster.restore_cluster1 1372813089189561287,1379661944630264072
    
    tidbcloud_cluster.restore_cluster1: Importing from ID "1372813089189561287,1379661944630264072"...
    tidbcloud_cluster.restore_cluster1: Import prepared!
      Prepared tidbcloud_cluster for import
    tidbcloud_cluster.restore_cluster1: Refreshing state... [id=1379661944630264072]
    
    Import successful!
    
    The resources that were imported are shown above. These resources are now in
    your Terraform state and will henceforth be managed by Terraform.
    ```

> 3. Run `terraform state show tidbcloud_cluster.restore_cluster1` command to get the state of the cluster:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Run the `terraform state show tidbcloud_cluster.restore_cluster1` command to get the status of the cluster:
```

    ```
    $ terraform state show tidbcloud_cluster.restore_cluster1
    
    # tidbcloud_cluster.restore_cluster1:
    resource "tidbcloud_cluster" "restore_cluster1" {
        cloud_provider = "AWS"
        cluster_type   = "DEDICATED"
        config         = {
            components = {
                tidb    = {
                    node_quantity = 2
                    node_size     = "8C16G"
                }
                tiflash = {
                    node_quantity    = 2
                    node_size        = "8C64G"
                    storage_size_gib = 500
                }
                tikv    = {
                    node_quantity    = 6
                    node_size        = "8C32G"
                    storage_size_gib = 500
                }
            }
            port       = 4000
        }
        id             = "1379661944630264072"
        name           = "restoreCluster"
        project_id     = "1372813089189561287"
        region         = "eu-central-1"
        status         = "AVAILABLE"
    }
    ```

> 4. In order to manage it, you can copy it to your config file. Remember to delete the status and id, for they are computed by terraform and can not be set in the config:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. To manage the cluster using Terraform, you can copy the output of the previous step to your configuration file. Note that you need to delete the lines of id and status, because they will be controlled by Terraform instead:
```

    ```
    resource "tidbcloud_cluster" "restore_cluster1" {
          cloud_provider = "AWS"
          cluster_type   = "DEDICATED"
          config         = {
              components = {
                  tidb    = {
                      node_quantity = 2
                      node_size     = "8C16G"
                  }
                  tiflash = {
                      node_quantity    = 2
                      node_size        = "8C64G"
                      storage_size_gib = 500
                  }
                  tikv    = {
                      node_quantity    = 6
                      node_size        = "8C32G"
                      storage_size_gib = 500
                  }
              }
              port       = 4000
          }
          name           = "restoreCluster"
          project_id     = "1372813089189561287"
          region         = "eu-central-1"
    }
    ```

> 5. You can use `terraform fmt` to format your config file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. You can use `terraform fmt` to format your configuration file:
```

    ```
    $ terraform fmt 
    
    main.tf
    ```

> 6. To ensure the consistency of the config and state, you can execute `terraform plan` or `terraform apply`. If you see `No changes`, the import is successful.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. To ensure the consistency of the configuration and status, you can execute `terraform plan` or `terraform apply`. If you see `No changes`, the import is successful.
```

Author: 这里也是 state 更合理

    ```
    $ terraform apply
    
    tidbcloud_cluster.restore_cluster1: Refreshing state... [id=1379661944630264072]
    tidbcloud_cluster.example_cluster: Refreshing state... [id=1379661944630234067]
    tidbcloud_backup.example_backup: Refreshing state... [id=1350048]
    tidbcloud_restore.example_restore: Refreshing state... [id=780114]
    
    No changes. Your infrastructure matches the configuration.
    
    Terraform has compared your real infrastructure against your configuration and found no differences, so no changes are needed.
    
    Apply complete! Resources: 0 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.
    ```

> Now you can manage the cluster created by the restore task.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now you can use Terraform to manage the cluster created by the restore task.
```
